---
layout: post
title: JclDebug
tags:
- Delphi
- Free Software
status: publish
type: post
published: true
meta: {}

---
If you are a Delphi Programmer like me, you surely know the problem with users reporting an exception here and there but you cannot reproduce it at your place. This can get even more dramatical if such exceptions are thrown within threads as this will lead to an immediate bluescreen in Windows 9x/ME and to a "visit" by Dr. Watson in the NT-based versions of windows.

Imagine you could get a detailed error-report containing a full callstack of where the error occured combined with information about file and line-number. This report could be generated directly on the users computer and be sent to you via email or directly via the internet, using a custom procedure - even directly creating entries in the bugtracking-tool you are using.

This and more is made possible by the <a href="http://www.delphi-jedi.org/">Project JEDI</a> - more accuratly, the JCL-Subproject with its JclDebug-Framework. When you have completed the installation of the package, a new Menu Option called "Inser JCL Debug Data" will be added to the Project-Menu of your Delphi-IDE.

Now you add an Exception-Dialog to the Application using "File, New, Other..." followed by "Dialog, Exception Dialog".

The newly added Form can easily be customized to your likings.

Now make a complete build. The IDE-Plugins will create a MAP-File, compress it and add it to the .EXE-File of your Project. When an Exception is thrown, the new error-dialog will be used, displaying a complete callstack with filenames and linenumbers.

I've created a small CGI-Script for receiving such reports and automatically filing it into my <a href="http://phpbt.sourceforge.net/">phpBugTracker</a> (a very nice "Bugzilla-Light" written in PHP). This has already helped me to track two stupid bugs down which I was never able to reproduce on my development system.

Oh and before I forget: The whole thing can be downloaded on it's <a href="http://jvcl.sourceforge.net/">Webpage</a> at Sourceforge.
