---
layout: post
title: Speed up
categories:
- gnegg.ch
- Personal
- Unix
status: publish
type: post
published: true
meta: {}

---
<p>
Maybe you have noticed that this page loads faster than before - especially faster than it did the last two weeks or so. Maybe you wonder too, why there was this downtime at the end of march.
</p><p>
I won't go into many details, but gnegg.ch (and a whole lot of other stuff) is now running on a brand new server (slightly faster machine) with <a href="http://www.gentoo.org">Gentoo Linux</a> using a 2.6.4 Kernel.
</p><p>
This due to some sucker hacking into the older machine last march, installing a quite destabilizing rootkit (thanks for that... this lead me to notice the crack quite fast...), modifying a lot of html-files and php.ini so that nearly every page served contained a IFRAME utilizing a IE exploit to install some kind of dialer (the IFRAME linked to forced-action.com). The wonderful and gratifying work of this unknown and soooo cool guy caused me to return home from vacation to do some rescuing work.
</p><p>
This is not the usual stinking phpNuke-Exploit (we were not running any phpNuke anyway) as this would not lead to a rootkit getting installed.
</p><p>
Again: Many thanks for your "hard work", dear anonymous hacker. You got me the much needed opportunity to finally install Gentoo. And not only that: You even got me a faster Server to work on (to prevent any further downtime during reinstallation of the new OS). Now that this episode finally has come to an end, I will have a look at those disk-images I took from the compromised machine. Let's see what I find out.</p>
