---
layout: post
title: Delphi 2005
tags:
- Delphi
- Programming
- Software
status: publish
type: post
published: true
meta: {}

---
<p>I got my hands on the demo-version of Delphi 2005 (download it <a href="http://www.borland.com/products/downloads/download_delphi.html">here</a>), and I actually have configured the beast already, so I have my usual environement to work on PopScan with it. These are my first impressions (I won't talk about this File-Download-Window-Popping-Up Problem as all know it's a nasty problem with a security-patch from Microsoft which will soon be fixed. Read about it <a href="http://blogs.borland.com/stevet/archive/2004/11/16/1844.aspx"> here on Steves blog</a></p>

<ul>
 <li>It takes quite some time to start up. After removing the Delphi.NET and c# personalities (don't need them), it starts about as fast, als my Delphi 7 did. Just a little bit slower</li>
 <li>The compiler got faster, if you ask me.</li>
 <li>Besides the great new features Borland is talking about, there are very nice usability-tunings everywhere which make working quite a bit easier.</li>
 <li>The VCL form designer is extremely slow on my machine. Just displaying the PopScan Main Form within the designer takes nearly 10 Seconds. Delphi 7 does that instantly.</li>
 <li>The debugger is slower too, which certainly has to do with the many great feature additions. I can live with that.</li>
 <li>It's extremely compatible to Delphi 7: I could install every single third party component without any problems. This is quite impressive considering Delphi 2005 is quite a rewrite.</li>
 <li>While I like the new docked form designer, there's one usability-problem with it: When you have components that use their own property editors (like Toolbar 2000), those editors are opened in their own window (understandable). Now, if you select a button in the component editor and then click the Project inspector to change a property, the Delphi Main Window will cover the property editor rendring it invisible. An easy fix would be to define the property editor always-on-top - a better fix would be integrating it somewhere in the IDE</li>
 <li>Even JCLDebug could be compiled and installed (even the IDE Expert did work, though you have to manually install it)</li>
</ul>
<p>All in all, this release of Delphi is a very great release providing the user with a ton of new features and fixes to long-standing usability problems (so long that you got used to them and now are missing them...). I have not expirienced any crashes so far (besides the one where the expat-parser of a debugged application took all the ram on my system, but I don't blame Delphi for that), which is very nice.</p>
<p>Now, if only the beast could be made to run a bit faster (which <a href="http://blogs.borland.com/ao/archive/2004/11/24/1937.aspx">will be done</a>, I'd say, it's the best Delphi since Delphi 2 which means quite a lot...</p>
<p>Thanks Borland.</p>
<p>PS: I know that it's currently more in fashion to bash Borland and to whine about everything they do. And for the fourth consecutive year now I read posting about Delphi's impending doom everywhere on the net. But consider this: Delphi still is the only RAD tool out there producing 100% native windows executables. And it still has one of the most lively communities I know of in the Windows-world. Even if Borland <em>would</em> kill off delphi, I'm quite certain, it will not go so easily. Not with this community.</p>
<p>On and speaking of killing off delphi: Seeing this great release of Delphi 2005, I am quite assured that Borland will continue supporting us.</p>
<p>So: Quit whining around!</p>
