---
layout: post
title: mp3act
tags:
- PHP
- Software
status: publish
type: post
published: true
meta: {}

---
<p>When you have a home server, sooner or later your coworkers and friends (and if all is well even both in one person ;-) ) will want to have access to your library</p>
<p>Cablecom, my ISP, has this nice 6000/600 service, so there's plenty of upstream for others to use in principle. And you know: Here in Switzerland, the private copy among friends is still legal.</p>
<p>Well, last sunday it was time again. Richard wanted access to my large collection of audiobooks and if you know me (and you do as a reader of this blog), you'll know that I can't just give him those files on a DVD-R or something. No. A webbased mp3-library had to be found.</p>
<p>Last few times, I used Apache::MP3, but that grew kinda old on me. You know: It's a perl module and my home server does not have mod_perl installed. And I'm running Apache 2 for which Apache::MP3 is not ported yet AFAIK. And finally, I'm far more comfortable with PHP, so I wanted something written in that language so I could make a patch or two on my own.</p>
<p>I found <a href="http://www.mp3act.net/">mp[3]act<span style="display: none">mp3act</span></a> which is written in PHP and provides a very, very nice AJAX based interface. Granted. It breaks the back-button, but everything else is very well done</p>
<p>And it's fast. Very fast.</p>
<p>Richard liked it and Christoph is currently trying to install it on his windows server, not as successful as he wants to be. mp3act is quite Unix-Only currently.</p>
<p>The project is in an early state of developement and certainly has a rough end here and there, but in the end, it's very well done, serves its need and is even easily modifiable (for me). Nice.</p>
