---
layout: post
title: Apple TV - Second try
categories:
- apple
- Hardware
- hd
- Mac
- opinion
- Opinions
- video
status: publish
type: post
published: true
meta: {}

---
<p>When Apple announced their AppleTV a couple of months (or was it years?) ago, I was very skeptical of the general idea behind the device. Think of it: What was the big success behind the iPod? That it could run proprietary AAC files people buy from the music store?</p>  <p>No. That thing didn't even exist back then. The reason for the success was the total easy (and FAST - remember: Back in the days, we had 1.1 MB/s USB which every MP3 player used vs. 40MB/s Firewire of the iPod) handling and the fact that it was an MP3 player - playing the files everyone already had.</p>  <p>It was a device for playing the content that was available at the time.</p>  <p>The AppleTV in its first incarnation was a device capable of playing content that wasn't exactly available. Sure it could play the two video podcasts that existed back then (maybe more, but you get the point). And you could buy TV shows and movies in subpar quality on your PC (Windows or Mac) and then transfer them to the device. But the content that was available back then was in a different format: XVID dominated the scene. x264 was a newcomer and MP4 (and mov) wasn't exactly used.</p>  <p>So what you got was a device, but no content (and the compatible content you had was in subpar quality compared to the incompatible content that was available). And you needed a PC, so it wasn't exactly a device I could hook to my parents PC for example.</p>  <p>All these things were fixed by Apple today:</p>  <ul>   <li>There is a huge library of content available right here, right now (at least in the US): The new movie rental service. Granted. I think it's not quite there yet price vs. usability-wise (I think $5 is a totally acceptable price for a movie with unlimited replayability), but at least we have the content. </li>    <li>It works without a PC. I can hook this thing up to my parents TV and they can immediately use it. </li>    <li>The quality is OK. Actually, it's more than OK. There is HD content available (though maybe only 720p one, but frankly, on my expensive 1080p projector, I don't see that much of a difference between 720p and 1080p) </li>    <li>It can still access the scarce content that was available before. </li> </ul>  <p>The fact that this provides very easy to use video-on-demand to a huge amount of people is what makes me think that this little device is even more of a disruptive technology than the iPod or the iPhone. Think of it: Countless of companies are trying to make people pay for content these days. It's the telcos, it's cable companies and it's device manufacturers. But what do we get? Crappy, constantly crashing devices, which are way too complicated for a non-geek and way too limited in functionality for a geek.</p>  <p>Now we got something that's perfect for the non-geek. It has the content. It has the ease-of-use. Plug it in, watch your movie. Done. This is what a whole industry tried to do and failed so miserably.</p>  <p>I for my part will still prefer the flexibility given by my custom Windows Media Center solution. I will still prefer the openness provided by illegal copies of movies. I totally refuse to pay multiple times for something just because someone says that I have to. But that's me. </p>  <p>And even I may sooner or later prefer the comfort of select-now-watch-now to the current procedure (log into private tracker, download torrent, wait for download to finish, watch - torrents are not streamable, even if the bandwith would easily suffice in my case - the packets arrive out of order), so even for me, the AppleTV could be interesting.</p>  <p>This was yet another perfect move by Apple. Ignore the analysts out there who expected more out of this latest keynote. Ignore the bad reception of the keynote by the marked (I hear that Apple stock just dropped a little bit). Ignore all that and listen to yourself: This wonderful device will certainly revolutionize the way we consume video content.</p>  <p>I'm writing this as a constant sceptic - as a person always trying to see a flaw in a certain device. But I'm sure that this time around, they really got it. Nice work!</p>
