---
layout: post
title: node to go
categories:
- programming
- nodejs
- linux
status: publish
type: post
published: true
---
Having node.js around on your machine can be very useful - not just if you are
<a href="/tags/tempalias/">building your new fun project</a>, but also for
quite real world applications.

For me it was <a href="http://jashkenas.github.com/coffee-script/">coffee script</a>.

After reading some incredibly beautiful coffee code by <a href="https://twitter.com/brainlock">@brainlock</a>
(work related, so I can't link the code), I decided that I wanted to use
coffee in PopScan and as such I need coffee support in sacy which handles
asset compilation for us.

This means that I need node.js on the server (sacy is allowing us a very cool
checkout-and-forget deployment without any build-scripts, so I'd like to keep
this going on).

On servers we manage, this isn't an issue, but some customers insist on
hosting PopScan within their DMZ and provide a pre-configured Linux machine
running OS versions that weren't quite current a decade ago.

Have fun compiling node.js for these: There are so many dependencies to meet
(a recent python for example) to build it - if you even manage to get it to
compile on these ancient C compilers available for these ancient systems.

But I really wanted coffee.

So here you go: Here's a statically linked (this required a bit of trickery)
binary of node.js v0.4.7 compiled for 32bit Linux. This runs even on an
ancient RedHat Enterprise 3 installation, so I'm quite confident that it runs
everywhere running at least Linux 2.2:

<a href="http://www.pilif.ch/node-x86-v0.4.7.bz2" checksum="sha256:142085682187a57f312d095499e7d8b2b7677815c783b3a6751a846f102ac7b9">node-x86-v0.4.7.bz2</a>
(SHA256:&nbsp;142085682187a57f312d095499e7d8b2b7677815c783b3a6751a846f102ac7b9)

    pilif@miscweb ~ % file node-x86-v0.4.7 
    node-x86: ELF 32-bit LSB executable, Intel 80386, version 1 (SYSV), for GNU/Linux 2.2.5, statically linked, for GNU/Linux 2.2.5, not stripped

The binary can be placed wherever you want and executed from there - node
doesn't require any external files (which is very cool).

I'll update the file from time to time and provide an updated post. 0.4.7 is good enough to run coffee script though.